
Version 1.0.1

=====================  ==============================  =========  ============================================================================================================================================================================================================
HDU Name               HDU Type                        Data Type  Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 
=====================  ==============================  =========  ============================================================================================================================================================================================================
``PRIMARY``            `astropy.io.fits.PrimaryHDU`_   ...        Empty data HDU.  Contains basic header information.                                                                                                                                                         
``TRACE_*``            ...                             ...        Image used to construct the edge traces; see :class:`~pypeit.images.buildimage.TraceImage` and :class:`~pypeit.images.pypeitimage.PypeItImage`.                                                             
...                    ...                             ...        ...                                                                                                                                                                                                         
``TRACEBPM``           `astropy.io.fits.ImageHDU`_     uint8      Bad-pixel mask for trace image                                                                                                                                                                              
``SOBELSIG``           `astropy.io.fits.ImageHDU`_     float32    Sobel-filtered image used to detect edges                                                                                                                                                                   
``TRACEID``            `astropy.io.fits.ImageHDU`_     int64      ID number for the edge traces.  Negative and positive IDs are for, respectively, left and right edges.                                                                                                      
``MASKDEF_ID``         `astropy.io.fits.ImageHDU`_     int64      slitmask ID number for the edge traces. IDs are for, respectively, left and right edges.  Only defined if mask-design metadata is available.                                                                
``EDGE_CEN``           `astropy.io.fits.ImageHDU`_     float32    (Floating-point) Measured spatial coordinate of the edge traces for each spectral pixel.  Shape is (Nspec,Ntrace).                                                                                          
``EDGE_ERR``           `astropy.io.fits.ImageHDU`_     float32    Error in the measured spatial coordinate edge traces.                                                                                                                                                       
``EDGE_MSK``           `astropy.io.fits.ImageHDU`_     int32      Bitmask for the edge trace positions.                                                                                                                                                                       
``EDGE_FIT``           `astropy.io.fits.ImageHDU`_     float32    The best-fit model result for the trace edge.                                                                                                                                                               
``PCA``                `astropy.io.fits.BinTableHDU`_  ...        The PCA decomposition of all edge traces.  Not defined if PCA separated between left and right traces (i.e., the left_right_pca parameter is True).  See :class:`~pypeit.tracepca.TracePCA`.                
``PCA_MODEL_?``        `astropy.io.fits.BinTableHDU`_  ...        Model parameters for the ?th component of the PCA; see ``pca_coeffs_model`` in :class:`~pypeit.tracepca.TracePCA` and :class:`~pypeit.core.fitting.PypeItFit`.                                              
...                    ...                             ...        ...                                                                                                                                                                                                         
``LEFT_PCA``           `astropy.io.fits.BinTableHDU`_  ...        The PCA decomposition of the left-edge traces.  Not defined if PCA performed on all traces, regardless of edge side (i.e., the left_right_pca parameter is False).  See :class:`~pypeit.tracepca.TracePCA`. 
``LEFT_PCA_MODEL_?``   `astropy.io.fits.BinTableHDU`_  ...        Model parameters for the ?th component of the left-edge PCA; see ``pca_coeffs_model`` in :class:`~pypeit.tracepca.TracePCA` and :class:`~pypeit.core.fitting.PypeItFit`.                                    
...                    ...                             ...        ...                                                                                                                                                                                                         
``RIGHT_PCA``          `astropy.io.fits.BinTableHDU`_  ...        The PCA decomposition of the right-edge traces.  Not defined if PCA performed on all traces, regardless of edge side (i.e., the left_right_pca parameter is False).  See :class:`~pypeit.tracepca.TracePCA`.
``RIGHT_PCA_MODEL_?``  `astropy.io.fits.BinTableHDU`_  ...        Model parameters for the ?th component of the right-edge PCA; see ``RIGHT_pca_coeffs_model`` in :class:`~pypeit.tracepca.TracePCA` and :class:`~pypeit.core.fitting.PypeItFit`.                             
...                    ...                             ...        ...                                                                                                                                                                                                         
=====================  ==============================  =========  ============================================================================================================================================================================================================
