************
Keck MOSFIRE
************

Overview
========

This file summarizes several instrument specific settings that are related to the Keck/MOSFIRE spectrograph.

PypeIt File
===========

Here is some advice on how to setup your PypeIt file.

To setup the :ref:`pypeit_file`, run::

    pypeit_setup -r absolute_path -s keck_mosfire -b -c A

where -b indicates that the data use sky subtraction and the columns  `calib`, `comb_id`, `bkg_id`
are added to the :ref:`pypeit_file:Data Block`. See :ref:`pypeit_setup` and
:doc:`A-B_differencing` for the syntax used for the data in these columns and how ``PypeIt`` uses them.

Here is an example of the :ref:`pypeit_file:Data Block` of the PypeIt file::

    # Read in the data
    data read
     path raw/
    |          filename |                 frametype |           ra |         dec |          target |       dispname |           decker | binning |            mjd |    airmass | exptime | filter1 | lampstat01 |  dithpat | dithpos | dithoff | frameno | calib | comb_id | bkg_id |
    | m120910_0410.fits | pixelflat,illumflat,trace |          7.8 |        45.0 |     Dome Phlatz | H-spectroscopy | MOSFIRE_DRP_MASK |     1,1 |  56180.6945327 | 1.41291034 | 14.5479 |       H |         on |    Stare |  object |     0.0 |     410 |     3 |      -1 |     -1 |
    | m120910_0411.fits | pixelflat,illumflat,trace |          7.8 |        45.0 |     Dome Phlatz | H-spectroscopy | MOSFIRE_DRP_MASK |     1,1 |  56180.6948371 | 1.41291034 | 14.5479 |       H |         on |    Stare |  object |     0.0 |     411 |     3 |      -1 |     -1 |
    | m120910_0412.fits | pixelflat,illumflat,trace |          7.8 |        45.0 |     Dome Phlatz | H-spectroscopy | MOSFIRE_DRP_MASK |     1,1 | 56180.69517159 | 1.41291034 | 14.5479 |       H |         on |    Stare |  object |     0.0 |     412 |     3 |      -1 |     -1 |
    | m120910_0175.fits |          arc,science,tilt | 344.98215835 | 33.00561651 | MOSFIRE_DRP_MAS | H-spectroscopy | MOSFIRE_DRP_MASK |     1,1 | 56180.53134073 | 1.27528573 | 29.0958 |       H |        off | Mask Nod |       A |     2.5 |     175 |     3 |       3 |     -1 |
    | m120910_0176.fits |          arc,science,tilt | 344.98372629 | 33.00516929 | MOSFIRE_DRP_MAS | H-spectroscopy | MOSFIRE_DRP_MASK |     1,1 | 56180.53198772 | 1.27866912 | 29.0958 |       H |        off | Mask Nod |       B |    -2.5 |     176 |     3 |      55 |     -1 |

    data end

The dither pattern, position and offset associated to each fame is reported here, but the `calib`, `comb_id`, `bkg_id`
columns are not properly set. The user can use the dither information to help guide the edit of these columns.


Calibrations
============

Edge Tracing
------------

Multi-slits
***********

``PypeIt`` is able to match the traced slit to the slit-mask design information
contained as meta data in the MOSFIRE observations. This functionality at the moment is
implemented only for MOSFIRE and DEIMOS and is switched on by setting **use_maskdesign** flag in
:ref:`pypeit_par:EdgeTracePar Keywords` to *True*.  This is, already, the default for MOSFIRE,
except when the *LONGSLIT* mask is used.

``PypeIt`` also assigns to each extracted 1D spectrum the corresponding RA, Dec and object name
information from the slit-mask design, and forces the extraction of undetected object at the location
expected from the slit-mask design. This functionality is also the default for MOSFIRE and can be
controlled through the flags **assign_obj** and **extract_missing_objs** in :ref:`pypeit_par:SlitMaskPar Keywords`.
See `Additional Reading`_ .

By default, ``PypeIt`` uses the dither offset recorded in the header of the science frames to find the
objects in the slits. However, a better approach would be to let ``PypeIt`` compute the offset using
a bright object in one of the slits in the slit-mask. To do so, the user should provide in the :doc:`pypeit_file`
the ``maskdef_id`` (corresponding to "Slit_Number" in the MOSFIRE slit-mask design) of the slit containing the
bright object. Here is an example::

    [reduce]
       [[slitmask]]
            use_dither_offset = False
            bright_maskdef_id = 1

Note that ``maskdef_id`` is an ID associated to each slit in the slit-mask design, therefore it is instrument specific,
and it differs from ``SPAT_ID``, which is generated by ``PypeIt`` and assigned to each slit.

When the extraction of undetected objects is performed, the user can input a value of the FWHM for the
optimal extraction by setting the parameter **missing_objs_fwhm** in :ref:`pypeit_par:SlitMaskPar Keywords`.
If **missing_objs_fwhm = None** (which is the default) ``PypeIt`` will use the median FWHM of all the
detected objects.

long2pos
********
This a custom CSU mask with two slits that are offset from the field center (plus a center alignment box),
which allows MOSFIRE observers to acquire standard star spectra that cover the entire accessible wavelength range.
Besides these two slits and the central alignment box, the rest of the mask is filled with random slits. Often, the
calibration frames don't have the same number of random slits as in the science frame, causing bad calibration
or the code to crash.
``PypeIt`` is able to exclude those random slits from the slit tracing process.
The parameter that controls the exclusion of detector regions from the slit edge tracing is **exclude_regions**
in :ref:`pypeit_par:EdgeTracePar Keywords`. By default, ``PypeIt`` excludes the regions where the random slits are
for a `long2pos` mask, but if the users want to modify that, they can do it in the :doc:`pypeit_file` in the
following way::

    [calibrations]
        [[slitedges]]
            exclude_regions = 1:0:880,1:1190:2040

This example would select two regions in det=1 between pixels 0 and 880 and between 1190 and 2040 in the x
direction of the detector.

Moreover, similarly to the multi-slits mask, ``PypeIt`` by default will match the traced slit to the slit-mask
design information contained as meta data in the MOSFIRE observations, and assign to each extracted 1D spectrum
the corresponding RA, Dec and object name information from the slit-mask design. However, forces the extraction
of undetected object is not performed by default.
Note that the RA and Dec recorded in the MOSFIRE observations of `long2pos` masks are mock numbers, therefore
the users should not use them.

LONGSLIT
********
Similarly to `long2pos`, `LONGSLIT` masks with a single slit that is shorter than the length of the
detector will have random slits that fill the mask. By default, ``PypeIt`` is capable of excluding
from the edge tracing process the regions where the random slits are for a `LONGSLIT` mask. However,
if the automatic selection of the regions to exclude does not look right, the users can still modify that
adding the **exclude_regions** parameter in the :doc:`pypeit_file` (as shown above), making sure that the
flag **bound_detector** is set to **True**.

Flat Fielding
-------------
Although ``PypeIt`` is able to recognize flat frames taken with the lamps off (and those frame will be
assigned the frame type ``pixelflat``, ``trace``, but not ``illumflat``), currently the lamps off flats
are not used to correct the dome flats for the thermal emission generated by the dome during K-band observations.

Wavelength calibration
----------------------
As default, the wavelength calibration is performed using the OH lines in science frames and
the :ref:`wave_calib:Full Template` algorithm. The templates are created in the same way as done for Keck/DEIMOS
(see :ref:`deimos_wavecalib`). There are five templates, one per each of the most commonly used MOSFIRE filters:

- keck_mosfire_OH_Y.fits
- keck_mosfire_OH_J.fits
- keck_mosfire_OH_J2.fits
- keck_mosfire_OH_H.fits
- keck_mosfire_OH_K.fits

and ``PypeIt`` will automatically choose the right template according to the specific dataset.

When `long2pos_specphot` mask is used, the wavelength calibration using OH lines will not be successful. Therefore,
five additional templates using arcs lines (Ar, Ne) are also available:

- keck_mosfire_arcs_Y.fits
- keck_mosfire_arcs_J.fits
- keck_mosfire_arcs_J2.fits
- keck_mosfire_arcs_H.fits
- keck_mosfire_arcs_K.fits

``PypeIt`` will use as default the arcs template if the mask used for the science/standard frames is `long2pos_specphot`.
Arc frames must be provided.

If there are other cases in which the user prefers to perform the wavelength calibration using the arc frames, instead
of using the OH lines, this can be done by adding in the :doc:`pypeit_file`::

    [calibrations]
       [[wavelengths]]
          sigdetect = 5
          method = full_template
          reid_arxiv = keck_mosfire_arcs_Y.fits
          lamps = Ar_IR_MOSFIRE,Ne_IR_MOSFIRE










Additional Reading
==================

Here are additional docs related to Keck/MOSFIRE:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   dev/mosfireframes
   dev/slitmask_ids
   dev/radec_object
   dev/add_missing_obj
