
Version 1.13.0
==============

Functionality/Performance Improvements and Additions
----------------------------------------------------

- Allow user control of the local sky subtraction window
- Implemented a resample algorithm when generating datacubes
- Sensitivity function masking and output updates
- Improve speed in ginga visualization of traces and added
  `pypeit_chk_tilts`. Note that this script uses an update
  of the tilts datamodel, so it will not work on older reductions.
- Fixed a bug in the `variance_model` calculation for combined images.

Datamodel Changes
-----------------

- Removed use of the term "master", renamed to calibration frames/files.
  Default output directory for calibration frames is now ``Calibrations``.
  Calibration frames renamed from, e.g., ``MasterArc*`` to ``Arc*``.
- Names of associated calibration frames now written to ``spec2d`` file headers.

Dependency Changes
------------------

- Deprecate support for python 3.8 with PypeIt, allow python 3.11
- Make pypeit_show_2dspec (somewhat) backwards compatible.
- Added the option to disable strict version checking for 1d coadds.
- Start to deprecate use of ``os.path`` in favor of ``pathlib``

Script Changes
--------------

- In PypeIt files, the ``'calib'`` column is now always added to the pypeit
  file, regardless of whether or not you also request the ``'comb_id'`` and
  ``'bkg_id'`` columns.
- In PypeIt files, the calibration group numbers can now be anything, as long as
  there are no more than 63 unique integers.
- Deprecated ``pypeit_parse_calib_id`` script, but improved the ``.calib`` file
  provided by ``pypeit_setup``.  The ``.calib`` file is now always written, and
  provides a direct association between input raw files and output calibration
  files.  Discussed in new docs.
- Added coadd2d setup script
- Added the possibility to use dither offsets saved in the header of the science
  frames for coadding 2D spectra (``dithoff`` must be part of the spectrograph
  metadata).
- Major quicklook updates; see documentation.  ql_multislit.py deprecated.

Instrument-specific Updates
---------------------------

- Updates to reduction parameters for LDT/DeVeny

Hotfixes
--------

- Hotfix to docs to ensure ``pypeit_loaders`` api doc is generated
- Hotfix for KCWI when using alignment (aka ContBars) frames for the astrometric correction.

