
Version 1.14.1dev
=================

Installation Changes
--------------------
- PypeIt will no longer be available through ``conda-forge`` and
  must be installed via ``pip`` from PyPI.  Users may still use
  ``conda`` for management of PypeIt's virtual environment.

Dependency Changes
------------------

- Removes use of deprecated ``pkg_resources``.
- Require version ``>=1.12`` for ``specutils``.
- Add ``psutil`` as a dependency for [test] and [dev] installs.

Functionality/Performance Improvements and Additions
----------------------------------------------------

- Started the development of instrument-specific scattered light removal. In this
  release, we only model KCWI/KCRM scattered light.
- Turned on usage of the use_2dmodel_mask parameter for echelle spectrographs
- Added support for Keck/KCRM RL data reduction.
- Allow one to turn off reinit of reduce_bpm in global_skysub and made this
  the default for the final pass
- Allow pypeit Spectrum1D loaders to circumvent the requirement that reduced
  spectrum have monotonically increasing wavelength data.  Non-monotonic
  wavelength data usually indicate a problem with the data reduction, but this
  at least lets users ingest the spectrum.
- Add a sensible error message to the pypeit Spectrum1D loaders in the event a
  user inadvertently tries to use Spectrum1D instead of SpectrumList for a
  ``spec1d`` file.
- Add support for the R4K detector for MDM OSMOS
- Enabled interpolation and extrapolation of missing echelle orders.  This is
  currently only used for Keck/HIRES, but the code is general.
- Allow the specification of wavelength limits on the flexure cross-correlation
  against a sky template to limit the effect of unconstrained wavelength
  solutions at the ends of the spectrum.
- Change ``overscan_method = 'polynomial'`` to ``overscan_method = 'chebyshev'``
  to reflect the *type* of polynomial being fit.  Both names point to the same
  code, but the name ``'polynomial'`` is deprecated and will be removed in the
  future.

Instrument-specific Updates
---------------------------

- Updated archival sensivity functions for DEIMOS 1200G, 800G, and 600ZD gratings.
- Keck/KCWI and Keck/KCRM: Turned on polynomial correction for sky subtraction.
- We now support the reduction of VLT/FORS2 data taken in MOS mode.
- Fixed fluxing file format in the ``Keck-DEIMOS HOWTO`` documentation.
- LDT/DeVeny: default parameter & wavelength template updates, add instrument-
  specific line lists, use SCITARG for target name if none entered in the LOUI.
- Added support for NTT/EFOSC2 Gr#4
- Keck/KCWI: FeAr are used for wavelength calibration, while the ThAr lamp is used
  to determine the wavelength tilt.

Script Changes
--------------

- When making datacubes, the user can select a separate frame to use for the sky
  subtraction.  In this case, it is the processed data that will be used for sky
  subtraction (akin to nodding).
- Allow a list of files to be passed to ``pypeit_chk_wavecalib``.
- A new script has been written (``chk_scattlight``) to check the generation of the scattered
  light calibration frame model.
- Added the ``pypeit_edge_inspector`` script, which allows users to edit the
  edge traces by-hand.

Datamodel Changes
-----------------

- A wavelength array is now stored for DataCube()

Under-the-hood Improvements
---------------------------

- The CoAdd3D code has been refactored into a series of core modules and PypeIt-specific routines.
- Polynomial overscan fitting now uses the ``numpy.polynomial.Chebyshev`` class instead of the
  deprecated ``numpy.polyfit()`` function.

Bug Fixes
---------

- Fixed bug associated with finding more than one file with the same name (but
  presumably different extensions).
- Fixed differential atmospheric refraction (DAR) correction bug. This bug affected
  datacubes combined using CoAdd3D(). Previously, the DAR was being computed, applied,
  and then later overwritten. The new routine is faster and more accurate.
- Fixed a bug associated with an incorrect date for the transition to the Mark4
  detector for Keck/LRIS RED.
- Fixed a bug with the ``pypeit_identify`` script when using echelle data. Previously,
  the sigdetect parameter was a list of all orders, instead of a single value.
- Fixed a bug with the GUI ``pypeit_skysub_regions``. Previously, the calib header
  information was not included, and this led to a calibration error.
- Corrected the binning scaling for BOXCAR_RADIUS in the object-finding algorithm.
  Previously, the platescale was multiplied by the *spectral* binning and not the
  *spatial* binning.
- Aligned the documentation and parameters with the code for polynomial overscan
  subtraction.  Docs/params specified 3 values to be passed in ``overscan_par`` for
  ``overscan_method = 'polynomial'``, but the code only uses one (poly order).


