
Version 1.16.1dev
=================

Installation Changes
--------------------

- Significant expansion of PypeIt's use of the cache system; see
  :ref:`data_installation`.  Important changes include that most cached files
  are now version dependent.  When upgrading to new versions of PypeIt, users
  should delete their cache and start fresh.

Dependency Changes
------------------

- Support added for numpy>=2.0.0; numpy<=2.0.0 should still be supported

Functionality/Performance Improvements and Additions
----------------------------------------------------

- Added the possibility to decide if the extracted standard star spectrum should be
  used as a crutch for tracing the object in the science frame (before it was done as default).
  This is done by setting the parameter ``use_std_trace`` in FindObjPar.
- Now PypeIt can handle the case where "Standard star trace does not match the number of orders in the echelle data"
  both in `run_pypeit` and in `pypeit_coadd_1dspec`.
- Added the functionality to use slitless flats to create pixelflats. Note: new frametype
  `slitless_pixflat` is added to the PypeIt frametype list.
- The created pixelflats are stored in the reduction directory and in the PypeIt cache directory
  `data/pixelflats`.
- Added a functionality that allows, when multiple frames are combined, to scale each
  frame to have the same mean value before combining. To use this
  functionality, the new parameter ``scale_mean`` should be set to ``True``.

Instrument-specific Updates
---------------------------

- Improved LRIS frame typing, including the typing of slitless flats and sky flats.
- Improved HIRES frame typing and configuration setup.
- Added support for the (decommissioned) AAT/UHRF instrument
- Updated the requirements of a spectral flip for KCWI (blue) data. If all amplifiers are
  used, the data will be flipped. If all amplifiers are used, the data will not be flipped.
  Otherwise, the data will be flipped.
- Updated X-Shooter detector gain and read noise to come from header, and
  updated plate scales to the most recent values from the manual.  Detailed
  changes are:
    - NIR arm:
        - Platescale updated from 0.197 to 0.245 arcsec/pixel
        - Dark current updated from 0. to 72. e-/pixel/hr
        - Gain updated from 2.12 to 2.29 e-/DN
    - VIS arm:
        - Platescale updated from an order-dependent value, to being 0.154
          arcsec/pixel for all orders
    - UVB arm:
        - Platescale updated from an order-dependent value, to being 0.164
          arcsec/pixel for all orders


Script Changes
--------------

- Modifications to the cache-related :ref:`install_scripts` to accommodate
  expansion of and changes to the cache system.
- Added ``pypeit_clean_cache`` script to facilitate both viewing and removing
  files in the cache.
- Changed the name of the multi-dimensional specdata to specdata_multi in pypeit_identify
  and improved the robustness of the saving dialog when calibrating single trace spectra.
- Fixed a read-in error for the high resolution A0V PHOENIX model.
- A new script, called `pypeit_extract_datacube`, allows 1D spectra of point
  sources to be extracted from datacubes.
- The sensitivity function is now generated outside of datacube generation.
- The `grating_corr` column is now used to select the correct grating
  correction file for each spec2d file when generating the datacube.
- Added the ``--extr`` parameter in the ``pypeit_sensfunc`` script (also as a SensFuncPar)
  to allow the user to specify the extraction method to use when computing the sensitivity
  function (before only optimal extraction was used).
- Added ``pypeit_show_pixflat`` script to inspect the (slitless) pixel flat
  generated during the reduction and stored in ``data/pixelflats``.
- Added ``pypeit_chk_flexure`` script to check both spatial and spectral flexure applied to
  the reduced data.
- Treatment of file names is now more formal.  Compression signatures are now
  considered, and filename matching is now more strict.

Datamodel Changes
-----------------

- Adjusted spec1d datamodel to enable use with UVES_popler GUI tool

Under-the-hood Improvements
---------------------------

- Introduced :class:`~pypeit.pypeitdata.PypeItDataPaths` to handle all
  interactions with the ``pypeit/data`` directory, which provides a unified
  interface for accessing on-disk and cached files.

Bug Fixes
---------

- Fix "The system cannot find the file specified" errors when installing on Windows.
- Fixed a fault caused when all frames in a pypeit file are identified as being
  part of ``all`` calibration groups.
- Allow for empty 2D wavecal solution in HDU extension of WaveCalib file
- Fixed a bug in the ginga display function, when the user doesn't provide the `trc_name` argument.
- Fix a MAJOR BUT SUBTLE bug in the use of ``numpy.argsort``. When using ``numpy.argsort``
  the parameter kind='stable' should be used to ensure that a sorting algorithm more robust
  than "quicksort" is used.
- Fix error "ValueError: setting an array element with a sequence. The requested
  array has an inhomogeneous shape after 1 dimensions..." occurring when unpacking
  the SpecObj spectrum but having an attribute of the SpecObj object that is None.
- Fixed an hidden bug that was causing the spatial flexure to fail. The bug was in the
  `SlitTraceBitMask` class, where the function `exclude_for_flexure()` was not returning
  the 'BOXSLIT' flag.




