
Version 1.8.0
=============

Significant changes
-------------------

- Code to allow for mosaicing multiple detectors into a single
  reduction. This is now the default for Gemini GMOS and improves
  stability of wavelength calibration.
- Introduces pypeit_parse_calib_id script
- Refactored manual extraction
- Update for LDT/DeVeny including support for binned data, use_header
  for reading arc lamps used from frames, and reid_arxiv templates for
  three additional gratings.
- Slurps in and uses slitmask design for Keck/LRIS (limited usage)
- Significant improvements in 2D coadding.
- Scripts to explore the noise residuals in PypeIt

Datamodel changes and algorithmic improvements
----------------------------------------------

- Improved performance of L.A. Cosmic implementation
- Now uses stars in alignment boxes for default calculation of slitmask
  offsets in DEIMOS reductions.
- 2D wavelength calibration image now added to Flat output
- Improved treatment of saturation.
- Dark counts used for calculating the shot noise now includes measured
  dark images if provided.
- Include sky model in 2nd pass of global sky subtraction (not for IR
  redux).
- Skymask is now computed also for the maskdef_extract objects.
- Added dedicated fwhm and boxcar_radius for maskdef_extract objects.
- Added pypeit_version to the pypeit file header.
- Set DEIMOS find_fwhm default to 0.8" in binned pixels.
- Added row-dependent pattern-noise calculation for KCWI

Bug fixes
---------

- Fixed a bug about how maskdef_offset is assigned to each detector
- Fixed 2Dcoadd spec bugs for central wavelength dithers.

