
Version 1.9.0
=============

Major Changes
-------------

- Reduction of Keck/DEIMOS now defaults to mosaics of red and blue
  detector pairs
- Package data is no longer distributed via PyPI. Instead, we use
  astropy's downloading/caching system as needed by the user
- Significant refactor of object finding and 2D extraction algorithms
- Added support for:
  - VLT FORS2 600z grism
  - VLT XShooter UVB arm

Minor Changes/Improvements
--------------------------

- Default comb_id ordering matches the sorted file name in pypeit_setup
- Save output wavelength calibration from pypeit_identify to the cache
  for direct reuse in data reduction.
- The pypeit_identify GUI can now toggle between linear and log scaling
  of the arc spectrum flux.
- Dark subtraction now ignores any difference in exposure time, by
  default
- Added more flexible quicklook that can handle dithering.
- Bug fixes in local sky subtraction and extraction
- Fixed pypeit_setup issues due to bad LRIS headers.
- Fixed a bug in 2d coadding when objects were not being identified.
- Refactored 2d extraction.
- Minor enhancements to pypeit_identify GUI
- Refactoring of pypeit_show_wvcalib GUI

Instrument-specific Changes/Improvements
----------------------------------------

- Improve Keck/KCWI automatic frame typing.
- Added wavelength templates for
  - Keck/MOSFIRE (OH and arc lines)
  - bok_bc 300 grating template
- Improved wavelength solution for Gemini-Nort E2V detector
- Keck/DEIMOS now uses gain/RN values measured periodically by WMKO
- Added enhancements and fixes for Keck lris red Mark4.
- Added code to better parse Gemini/GNIRS dither sequences

